Add GOVERNANCE.md document (#140)
pulsar-edit/.github: GOVERNANCE.md

# Governance

This document is designed to document and clarify the governance of the Pulsar (Pulsar-Edit) organization and teams in an open and transparent way.
The intent is not for this to be a rigid set of rules but this does allow us to have some written reference as to how things are handled when it comes to the team organization and roles.

Members may belong to more than one team or role and some come hand-in-hand with each other.

> We do not work on a strict set of responsibilities with a strict governance model, we mostly resemble the [Do-ocracy](https://communitywiki.org/wiki/DoOcracy) approach to governance without too much in the way of formal or elaborate governance and policies but we do of course have to have some guidelines and agreed conventions to have a working organization.

Reviewer: 👍 Do-ocracy sounds about right, that is indeed how we've been doing it at least.

#### Moderators

Responsible for the day to day moderation of the server and community interactions.
- Ensuring civil discourse is taking place and taking action (warning users etc.)
- De-escalating any situations or heated conversations

#### Community roles

Community roles can be self-granted via the `#role-select` channel.
These members are people who are interested or participate within the Pulsar community and are expected to adhere to our code of conduct but otherwise do not have any official or specific responsibilities.
These roles are designed to help people get updates and communicate within the specific areas of the project that they are interested in.
Pulsar team members will also be part of these groups but they may not entirely correlate to the memberships and responsibilities granted in the GitHub sub-teams.
These roles are:

##### Core teams
- Core - works on the Main part of our editor
- Backend - API and server Development
- Documentation - Website and Documentation team
- Packages - Works on our core packages
- Developer - Just fills in anywhere that they want

##### Operating Systems
- Linux
- MacOS
- Windows

##### Other roles

> - Community Packages - join if you're into making packages for us

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Community Packages - join if you're into making packages for the editor
```

Author: That bit was taken verbatim from discord. I mean, I agree with the change but I think it should be changed there too.

Reviewer 3: Great catch there, this does sound better

- Updates - Join this if you're interested in receiving updates as they come out

## Team member & role additions/removals

Team/role administration and membership decision making is mostly covered by our [Policies](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/.github/blob/main/POLICY.md) but this section details the criteria and justifications for adding or removing team members and/or roles.

### Adding members/roles

Adding team members is performed in much the same way as any other decision (see [Policies](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/.github/blob/main/POLICY.md)) by proposals being made to add somebody to a team or role and a vote then taking place on that proposal.
If the vote passes without any significant disagreements then the member can be added to the relevant team or role.

> There is no strict set of criteria for addition but generally people who are active in the community and project for an extended period of time, have contributed and added value, and share in the organization's goals & vision can be considered.

Reviewer: I'm not sure we had formalized that adding members goes to a vote, though now that I think about it, it has been done _most_ of the times.

Exceptions were the somewhat haphazard early days when it wasn't clear when/if we were going to branch off from atom-community, and we needed some people with permissions just to have people with permissions and to get the ball rolling on Pulsar (not just PRs and discussions at atom-community org).

But this does feel like putting it in writing, which it is. Just noting it. Mixed feelings, since feels _mildly_ "documentation before policy" "cart before horse", but I'm leaning toward this _does_ feel like it is de-facto policy and I seem to recall informal agreement on this one. Just this makes it somewhat formal.

Author: Sorry it took so long to come back to this, not sure what happened.
So yeah, this one I think has indeed been *de-facto* policy, the intial grouping was one thing but this has been the process since I joined (02/08) at the very least, including raising access levels.

### Removing members/roles

This is not an action that the organization wants to perform in an ideal circumstances but this is something we do require some reference for so that people do not feel unfairly treated.
There are a number of circumstances where this might need to be performed and this section outlines (non-exhaustively) those reasons and justifications.

- **Removal requests**: If a member simply asks to be removed from a team or role for any reason then this should be done as they wish with no votes required.

> - **Inactivity**: If a member of a team or role becomes inactive for an extended period of time (3+ months) without any justification or conversation then removal may be required. The member should be first contacted by a another team member and, depending on the outcome, it should then be brought up and voted on as with any other decision. If the vote passes then the member will be removed from these various roles and teams. This vote may be to remove a person entirely or it may be to move to a role with fewer privileges but remain within the organization.

Reviewer: IMO the criterion isn't "inactive ... _**without ... justification or conversation**_", it's just inactivity. We are not removing access to make a judgment in the person, we are doing it as a routine security measure, and I epxect our posture toward re-adding people to be pretty open-minded and easy-going, though we may require activity again just like a new member? (Not to judge but to be cautious and disincentivize account takeovers by any malicious actors out there, and establish the person controlling the account is the same person.)

Likewise, the above where "This is not an action that the organization wants to perform in an ideal circumstances", (I see how that sentiment applies for conduct removals sure, but...) with my security hat on, rearding the timeout removals yes, we do want to get over the intuition hump of this being a thing with heightened emotions involved, and be doing it routinely and without partiality and yet also without any sort of judgment or social friction, I think for safety we need to be technocratic in just this one area and "just do it".

(Not planning this, posing this as a hypothetical, mind:) If I go on vacation for like several months, I hope there will be someone willing to review my application to come back on with perms, and most of what needs doing around can be done (PRs, issues, etc.) without _any_ internal permissions. But yeah, I want the heat off my account as a target for breaches if I'm genuinely away for an extended period of time. IMO that should be the framing.

Reviewer: So, I was thinking about this in the abstract before, but when it comes down to actually remove someone (remove someone's permissions, but it does feel personal), in practice I think it's going to be difficult to do that. We all know each-other pretty well at this stage, where we've vetted one-another. So of course it's going to feel personal to remove permissions.

I guess we do in that hypothetical scenario try and talk it out, and if we _can't reach_ the person we need to defer to "just doing it", even if it's actually a little uncomfortable.

I try to shield myself from that kind of sentiment, knowing it's for security, but we're all human, and just trying to technocrat things away doesn't really work a lot of the time nor does it even really dismiss the feelings, in all honestly. It just attempts to puts them out of sight out of mind.

**In summary**: yeah, I guess it's not something we can realistically do without some feelings about it. So the document has kind of hit the mark as-written.

## Modifying the organizational structure

Sometimes it may be necessary to modify the organizational structure as defined in this document.
This would be done in the same way as any other change as per our [Policies](https://github.com/pulsar-edit/.github/blob/main/POLICY.md) with proposals and a vote.
If the vote passes then any new team or role additions can be performed in the same way as this document describes.

## Other roles and responsibilities

Not every single role or responsibility has been detailed in this document. Some responsibilities are handled as and when required and to the person or people most suited for it.
Such areas include access details and administration of various tools and services used by the organization, social media account access, fund/donation access and expenses approval and organization secrets access.

> The above policies regarding adding or removing people to these specific privileges still apply.

Reviewer: In all honesty, I think we don't in practice _have_ policies we go by on this stuff. We have not been voting, for instance, on who has access to the non-GitHub services we use. Cirrus is implicit via GitHub perms. etc.

This section feels "docs before the policy", "cart before horse", and I don't like being critical, but it doesn't sit right telling people one thing when I full well expect us to do another.

Author: > We have not been voting, for instance, on who has access to the non-GitHub services we use.

No but I think in my opinion it *should* be done - at the very least these should be (where possible) via the admin email account. For those that are scoped around "teams" type accounts then we should probably start to be more granular with those permissions.

It might seem overkill to vote on all of them in which case I'm all ears for alternative wording here.
